Document all the currently supported SQL operation for Mysql connector (#21949)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/connector/mysql.rst

No other types are supported.

SQL Support
-----------

The MySQL connector allows querying and creating MySQL tables. Here are some examples of the SQL operations supported:

ALTER TABLE
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: sql

    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views ADD COLUMN zipcode VARCHAR;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views RENAME COLUMN zipcode TO location;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views DROP COLUMN location;

CREATE TABLE
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new MySQL table named ``page_views`` in the ``web`` schema:

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views (
      user_id bigint,
      page_url varchar,
      ds date,
      country varchar
    );

> .. note:: Presto does not enforce primary key constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: Presto does not enforce primary key constraints. For example, the following statement 

  .. code-block:: sql

   CREATE TABLE users (
           id INT PRIMARY KEY,
           name TEXT,
           email TEXT
       );

  returns an error similar to the following: 

  ``Query 20240322_095447_00010_syzb3 failed: line 2:19: mismatched input 'PRIMARY'. Expecting: ')', ','``
```

When I asked why you removed the error blocks, I didn't intend you to put them back in as is, I only wanted to understand why you had removed them. I think the new error blocks here are an improvement from your previous draft, but they could be improved and I want to explain why and how.

One problem with the errors you include is that the example error code (in lines 248-254) isn't explained to the user as a statement that outputs the error in the block following. The user must read the Note, then read the code block and figure out that this code block contains a primary key, then that this error - which is loud and the user's eye goes to it first - only happens with primary keys in the context of this kind of statement. 

How to fix? Let's include the error code block, and the error (not the error block, just the error) into the Note. The user can read the first sentence in the Note about primary keys and if that doesn't matter to them they can stop reading. 

I suggest you replace lines 246-259 with the suggestion I've written out here, which I tested in my local build and if I wrote it already you don't need to reverse-engineer the RST code from the screenshot of my local build, which I will also include: 

<img width="1071" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-22 at 12 10 13 PM" src="https://github.com/prestodb/presto/assets/7013443/80f62442-c745-4908-995f-307d450ffb86">

Notice the screenshot includes the Note generated from the suggested code, and also includes the good code example above it and the CREATE TABLE AS SELECT heading below it to show how the Note begins and ends.

.. code-block:: sql

   CREATE TABLE users (
           id INT PRIMARY KEY,
           name TEXT,
           email TEXT
       );

.. admonition:: Error
   :class: error

   Query 20240322_095447_00010_syzb3 failed: line 2:19: mismatched input 'PRIMARY'. Expecting: ')', ','

CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new table ``page_views_new`` from an existing table ``page_views``:

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views_new AS SELECT * FROM mysql.web.page_views;

> .. note:: Advanced SQL features such as data compression are not supported in the ``CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`` statement.

Reviewer: I suggest that you apply the same changes in the earlier comment here in lines 270-279, so this Note will include the sentence "Advanced SQL features such as data compression...", the error code block, and the error statement, like the example in the previous comment and screenshot.

.. code-block:: sql

    INSERT INTO mysql.web.page_views VALUES(1, 'https://example.com', current_date, 'country');

CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
----------------------

Create a new table `page_views_new` from an existing table `page_views`:

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views_new AS SELECT * FROM mysql.web.page_views;

SELECT
------

SELECT table operations are supported:

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT * FROM mysql.web.page_views;

ALTER TABLE
-----------

Alter table operations are supported:

.. code-block:: sql

    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views ADD COLUMN zipcode VARCHAR;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views RENAME COLUMN zipcode TO location;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views DROP COLUMN location;

TRUNCATE
--------

The MySQL connector can delete all of the data from tables without dropping the table:

.. code-block:: sql

    TRUNCATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views;

DROP TABLE
----------

Drop the table `page_views`:

.. code-block:: sql

    DROP TABLE mysql.web.page_views;

.. code-block:: none

    DROP TABLE is disabled in this catalog

MySQL Connector Limitations
===========================

The following SQL statements are not supported:

> - DELETE

Reviewer 2: I liked the previous version as it included links.  Can you add links to these docs?

Reviewer: This has been added.

No other types are supported.

MySQL Connector Support
-----------------------

The MySQL connector allows querying and creating MySQL tables and schemas. Here are some examples of the SQL operations supported:

CREATE SCHEMA
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new MySQL schema named ``web``:

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE SCHEMA mysql.web;

However, please note the following:

> .. error::

Reviewer: Why an ERROR block?

    SELECT * FROM mysql.web.page_views;

ALTER TABLE
^^^^^^^^^^^

Alter table operations are supported:

.. code-block:: sql

    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views ADD COLUMN zipcode VARCHAR;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views RENAME COLUMN zipcode TO location;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views DROP COLUMN location;

TRUNCATE
^^^^^^^^

The MySQL connector can delete all of the data from tables without dropping the table:

.. code-block:: sql

    TRUNCATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views;

DROP TABLE
^^^^^^^^^^

Drop the table ``page_views``:

.. code-block:: sql

    DROP TABLE mysql.web.page_views;

However, please note the following:

.. error::

    DROP TABLE is disabled in this catalog

MySQL Connector Limitations
---------------------------

The following SQL statements are not supported:

* :doc:`/sql/delete`
* :doc:`/sql/alter-table`
* :doc:`/sql/create-table` with PRIMARY KEY
* :doc:`/sql/create-view`
* :doc:`/sql/grant`
* :doc:`/sql/revoke`
* :doc:`/sql/show-grants`
* :doc:`/sql/show-roles`
* :doc:`/sql/show-role-grants`
* :doc:`/sql/create-schema`
* :doc:`/sql/update`
* :doc:`/sql/drop-table`
* :doc:`/sql/analyze`
* :doc:`/sql/drop-schema`
* :doc:`/sql/drop-view`

> The MySQL connector does not support advanced SQL features such as window functions and data compression in the ``CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advanced SQL features such as window functions and data compression are not supported in the ``CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`` statement.
```

This doesn't seem as though it's in the correct place: the CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statement is supported as you show in the example beginning in line 277, this is a limitation of support for that statement - not that the CREATE TABLE AS SELECT is unsupported in its entirety. 

For consistency with the ERROR blocks you have in the examples for CREATE SCHEMA, CREATE VIEW, and DROP VIEW, it seems that this statement belongs in a Note block at the end of the CREATE TABLE AS SELECT example that begins on line 277. 

If you move this sentence into a Note block at the end of the CREATE TABLE AS SELECT example it can be shortened further, as follows: 

"Advanced SQL features such as window functions and data compression are not supported for this SQL operation."

^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new MySQL table named ``page_views`` in the ``web`` schema:

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views (
      user_id bigint,
      page_url varchar,
      ds date,
      country varchar
    );

INSERT INTO
^^^^^^^^^^^

Insert data into the ``page_views`` table:

.. code-block:: sql

    INSERT INTO mysql.web.page_views VALUES(1, 'https://example.com', current_date, 'country');

CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new table ``page_views_new`` from an existing table ``page_views``:

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views_new AS SELECT * FROM mysql.web.page_views;

SELECT
^^^^^^

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT * FROM mysql.web.page_views;

ALTER TABLE
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: sql

    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views ADD COLUMN zipcode VARCHAR;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views RENAME COLUMN zipcode TO location;
    ALTER TABLE mysql.web.page_views DROP COLUMN location;

TRUNCATE
^^^^^^^^

Delete all of the data from the table ``page_views`` without dropping the table:

.. code-block:: sql

    TRUNCATE TABLE mysql.web.page_views;

MySQL Connector Limitations
---------------------------

> The following SQL statements are not supported:

Reviewer: Suggest alphabetizing this list following the order in [SQL Statement Syntax](http://prestodb.io/docs/0.286/sql.html), and following the [Code Style](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-style) recommendation in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

> The following SQL statements are not yet supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following SQL statements are not supported:
```
In general, technical documentation should use the present tense, and describe only the current state of the software. For references, see the Google developer documentation style guide about [present tense](https://developers.google.com/style/tense), [Document future features](https://developers.google.com/style/future), and [Timeless documentation](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation).

* :doc:`/sql/delete`
* :doc:`/sql/create-table` with PRIMARY KEY
* :doc:`/sql/grant`
* :doc:`/sql/revoke`
* :doc:`/sql/show-grants`
* :doc:`/sql/show-roles`
* :doc:`/sql/show-role-grants`
* :doc:`/sql/create-schema`
* :doc:`/sql/update`
* :doc:`/sql/drop-table`
* :doc:`/sql/analyze`

> The following supported SQL statements with certain conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following SQL statements are supported:
```

> The following supported SQL statements with certain conditions:

Reviewer: If you're going to keep this format, suggest moving the section of "supported SQL statements" to before the "unsupported SQL statements" section. That way, we can help the reader find what they _can_ do first, before they are told what they _can't_ do.

* :doc:`/sql/alter-table`: Supports adding a new column to an existing table.

> * :doc:`/sql/create-table` without PRIMARY KEY: Supports creating tables without defining a primary key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :doc:`/sql/create-table` Supports creating tables, but without defining a primary key.
```

> * :doc:`/sql/create-table-as`: Supports creating a new table using the results of a select statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :doc:`/sql/create-table-as`: Supports creating a new table using the results of a SELECT statement.
```

> * :doc:`/sql/truncate-table`: Supports truncation of a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :doc:`/sql/truncate`: Supports truncation of a table.
```
Fixed the incorrect link. When you can, test your doc draft by doing a local build of the docs which can help find problems like this.
